supernaturals been around a little over
half my lifetime which is pretty wild
307 episodes is a lot to keep track of
so before the 15th and final season
comes out wait is it actually ending in
any case I'm Jacob with Santa Monica and
I won't lay my weary head to rest until
I'm done with the first five seasons at
least cuz I'm gonna be breaking this
massive timeline into two parts and the
first one starts now
the empty before the beginning of time
the supernatural verse begins with the
empty which predates the universe itself
the empty is the home of the shadow a
cosmic entity at some point Amara
otherwise known as the darkness and her
baby brother capital G God come into
being and sometime later so did death
God created many universes but Amara was
compelled to destroy them in order to
protect his creations God made the four
Archangels Michael Raphael Gabriel and
Lucifer together the Archangels battled
the darkness aka Amara and sealed her
away with the mark which served as both
a key and a lock to a Mars cage God
entrusted the mark to his favorite
Archangel Lucifer I'm sure that'll work
out super well for him God then created
the leviathans the first beasts but they
were a little too destructive so God
created purgatory and locked the
leviathans there after creating
purgatory God created the universe along
with heaven and the rest of the angels
of those angels he names one Metatron to
be his scribe and keep the Word of God
he creates the earth humanity and the
souls of all living things including
Adam and Eve the first humans the angel
castiel is part of the angel Ana's
garrison on earth they probably spend a
few millennia watching fish evolve until
humans are created supernatural is a
little murky on how evolution works in
this world when God tells the angels
that humans are the best of his
creations some of them don't take it
super well which it's fair I mean has
God seen humanity for trash I have
issues with his work ethic if this is
the best he can do Lucifer takes the
whole humans are my favorite thing
especially hard and he also begins to
feel the negative effects of the mark it
has the pesky side effect of giving its
bearer an unquenchable desire to kill oh
good
Lucifer starts his long career of [ __ ]
it up by sneaking into the garden to
corrupt humanity with the help of the
angel gadreel Lucifer that asks his
brother Michael to stand with him
against God but Michael takes God's side
and begins a
or and gadreel is in prison for the
crime of letting Lucifer into the garden
during the war god creates hell and in
it a cage for Lucifer Lucifer creates
the first demon Lilith who was
originally a human after Lilith Lucifer
makes the princes of hell Azazel Ramy L
Dagon and Asthma Deus one of the early
humans Cain makes a pact with Lucifer to
keep his brother Abel out of hell in
exchange for letting Abel into heaven
Cain would kill his brother and take the
mark from Lucifer at this point the mark
becomes known as the Mark of Cain Cain
then kills himself but is brought back
as a demon this will be important in a
few thousand years trust me afterwards
Lucifer's finally defeated by Michael
and imprisoned in the cage unable to
take the family feud of the Archangel
Gabriel leaves heaven he meets Loki they
strike a bargain and Loki allows Gabriel
to assume his identity in order to hide
from heaven
later God himself leaves heaven just
because it's too much drama you know the
Archangels decide to rule the universe
themselves and they need the Word of God
to do it which is kept by Metatron the
angel they owe me is sent to get the
word but Metatron escapes to earth and
hides in the only angel that still has
contact with God is Joshua
in the meantime after God abandoned his
creation humans begin to worship pagan
gods things get biblical for a few
thousand years and then in 33 ad all
angels are recalled to heaven by Michael
and order to not reveal themselves to
humans until the apocalypse which of
course merely happens in the Winchester
brothers lifetimes sometime in the 1300s
a human named ruby sells her soul to the
demon Astaroth and becomes a witch she
dies in the Black Plague and will later
become a demon herself
in 1587 The Colony of Roanoke in
Virginia disappears the only clue left
behind is the word Croatoan carved into
a tree and believe it or not this
American mystery will bear heavily on
the story to come in 1661 Fergus MacLeod
is born in Scotland his mother teaches
him witchcraft as a young man Fergus
sells his soul to a crossroads demon for
a bigger like you do ten years later
he's dragged into hell by hell hounds
and becomes a demon known as Crowley
eventually he becomes Lilith's first
lieutenant Crowley is one of the few
demons who opposes Lucifer as Lucifer
sees demons as abominations despite the
fact that he you know created them lots
of abandoning your own creations here
and this won't be the last we hear from
Crowley in 1835 Samuel Colt builds the
cult a gun that can kill almost anything
there are only five things the Colt
can't kill and one of them is Lucifer
and that's not all Samuel Colt creates
some time before 1861
he finishes the Devil's Gate a doorway
to hell in Wyoming in 1861 Colt meets
Sam and Dean Winchester who have
traveled back in time from 2011 to get
Phoenix ashes to kill Eve the mother of
monsters more on this when we when we
get to 2011 and have actually met Sam
and Dean chronologically John Winchester
is born in 1954 in Normal Illinois
although his life will be anything but
he's born to Henry Winchester and his
wife Henry is a member of the men of
letters a secret society dedicated to
gathering and protecting knowledge about
the supernatural he intends to raise his
son John in that life on December 5th of
that year Mary Campbell is born to
Deanna and Samuel Campbell from the
Campbell Hunter clan on August 12th 1958
Henry Winchester leaves home never to
return
Abaddon a knight of hell and Kane's
protege massacres the men of letters but
Henry escapes and travels to 2013 back
in 1958 John and his mother moved to
Lawrence Kansas and she remarries to a
mechanic April 24th 1967 marks the
birthday of one of the most important
characters in Supernatural the Impala
she comes off the assembly line in
Janesville Wisconsin and that April
birth of course makes her a Taurus
secure stubborn down earth on March 23rd
1972 John and Mary Mead and Lawrence and
a cupid causes them to fall in love
later that year in 1972 Azazel the
Prince of Hell finds the gate to
Lucifer's cage and a convent in Maryland
Azazel kills the nuns inside and is
given instructions on how to spring
Lucifer from his prison he's told to
free Lilith and then to find a child who
will destroy the final seal
Castile sends Dean back to April 30th
1973 from 2008 there he meets John and
convinces him to buy the Impala instead
of a minivan
Azazel kills Mary's parents and makes a
deal with her to keep John alive Dean is
then transported back to the future in
an alternative universe though Mary
refuses Azazel and John dies as a result
the universe becomes an apocalypse world
back in our main timeline in 1978 Anna
the angel travels back from 2010 to kill
John and keep Sam from being born
Sam Dean and cast travel back in time to
stop her she nearly succeeds but the
Winchesters are saved by the Archangel
Michael who smites Anna and wipes John
and Mary's memories then in 1979 finally
Dean is born followed by lil bro Sam in
1983 even though they've already been
all over this timeline isn't time-travel
fun but the Winchesters familial joy is
short-lived on November 2nd of 1983
Azazel
pays a visit to the Winchester house and
feeds baby Sam demon blood
not even once I've seen the PSAs about
that Mary tries to stop him but his asel
puts her on the ceiling and sets her on
fire as seen that supernatural diehards
have probably seen hundreds of times at
this point the Winchester house is
burned to the ground and the Winchester
boys set out on the road to start saving
people and hunt things the family
business sometime in 1992 Sam discovers
that the supernatural is real and his
father is a hunter which is pretty heavy
stuff for a nine-year-old I barely would
have been able to handle meeting Santa
Claus at nine over the next 10 years the
Winchester boys have wacky adventures
like when Sam disappears for two weeks
to eat pizza and hang with a dog named
bones or when they team up to kill a
werewolf in 1997 in 2001 Sam's prom date
is possessed by a demon who reports to
his asel and of course Dean hooks up
with her on prom night in early 2002 Sam
leaves his father and brother so he can
attend college at Stanford I wouldn't be
surprised if this was at least partially
motivated by that whole demon prom date
thing in 2004 Sam starts dating Jessica
Moore a fellow college student after
being introduced by their friend Brady
who happens to be possessed by a demon
and that brings us at last to the start
of season 1 from here on out we're gonna
be following the chronology of the show
for the most part season 1 2005 to 2006
in the fall of 2005 John Winchester goes
on a hunting trip and then goes missing
Dean makes a trip to Stanford on
Halloween to ask for Sam's help to find
him the boys don't find their father but
when they return to Stanford Sam sees
Jessica on the ceiling and on fire just
like their mother this sets Sam and Dean
on the road in search of John and
following notes left in his journal it
doesn't take long for Sam and Dean to
encounter a demon for the first time
they run into it in December more
hunting hijinks ensue and in April of
2006 Sam meets a young woman named Meg
while hitchhiking after a fight with
Dean then in May Sam and Dean fight a
racist truck this is not a major life
event I just think it's funny
later that month Sam reveals that he's
been having visions since before Jessica
died oh and also he can move things with
his mind they meet another psychic kid
who has much more developed powers meg
meets the boys again at the end of May
and they throw her out of the window
after learning that she's a demon they
briefly see John who Megan set a trap
for they're glad dad's alive but it's
not exactly a warm reunion Dean tells
John to hit the road again it's
dangerous when they're all together in
June the boys run into harry spengler
and ed zeddmore ghost hunters who run
the website
hounds lair Sam also super glues Dean's
hand to a beer bottle during their prank
war also not a major life event but
still funny
in July John teams up with his sons to
get the Colt from a nest of vampires it
only has a few bullets and John needs
them to kill Azazel a few days later meg
starts killing friends of the
Winchesters to get the colt John agrees
to give her the Colt to stop the
killings but tries to trick her by using
a fake gun and it doesn't go over super
well and meg captures John the boys
visit beloved injured Bobby singer in
his salvage yard in hopes of finding a
way to save their dad they exercise Meg
rescued John and go to a safe house to
hide there Dean become suspicious of how
nice and paternal John is being and
discovers that their father is possessed
by the yellow-eyed demon aka Azazel the
demon tells them that he's the one who
killed Mary and Jessica because they got
in the way of his plans for Sam as the
demon attacks the boys John forces
himself to take control and grabs the
colt Sam uses the last bullet to shoot
John to frame from the demon they pile
in the Impala and Sam rushes his father
and brother to the hospital
unfortunately a demon possesses a truck
driver on the way and rams into the car
leaving all three unconscious cut to
black that's a wrap on season 1 season 2
2006 to 2007 season 2 opens in the
summer of 2006 while hospitalized John
Winchester makes a deal with his hazel
that he'll go to hell and give him the
colt if Dean can live Dean who's been
hanging out as a ghost is pulled back
into his body the grieving boys spend
time with Bobby before discovering a
message on John's phone it takes them to
the road house where they meet Ellen and
Jo harvelle and the hillbilly hacker ash
in September they meet Andy a young man
who has psychic powers similar to Sam's
as well as a sick van and Moby Dick's
bong Sam worries that all of his asel
psychic children turn bad
in November Sam's visions take him to a
town infected with the Croatoan virus
which is basically a demon biological
weapon and the same thing responsible
for the disappearance of the Roanoke
colony back in 1587 ah see I told you
that would come back it turns out as
asel is behind the epidemic and he's
testing to see if Sam is immune which
lucky for him he is a few months later
in February of 2007 the boys encounter
the trickster for the first time and
they believe they kill him but it's a
trick I damned if only we had some sort
of hint about how tricky the tricks
there is in April that pesky Azazel is
back he kidnaps all the psychic kids and
forces them to kill each other Battle
Royale style harvelle's road houses
destroyed and ash is killed but Ellen
and Jo
get out okay Azazel explains that the
surviving special kid will lead his
demon army so it's basically a lose-lose
for all of the kids involved Sam is
stabbed by another one of the psyche
kids Jake and dies but this is
supernatural so it doesn't really take
Dean makes a deal with a demon in
exchange for Sam's life as a result Dean
has only one year live Azazel and Jake
head to Samuel Colt's Devil's Gate to
let the demons loose but they're stopped
by the whole Scooby squad
Sam Dean Bobby Ellen Jo and even ghosts
to John Winchester
Dean shoots his asel with the Colt and
kills him they close the gate but only
after a ton of demons have escaped
season 3 2007 to 2008 onward to season 3
our University 2008 writers strike cut
the season short if only they'd gone
through this strike again in season 12
that we'll get to that eventually
in May 2007 or whatever equivalent
measure of time they use in Hell will if
kills all of her rivals and takes over
back on earth Sam Dean and Bobby fight
the seven deadly sins because of course
it couldn't be the little no-name demons
who got out they're saved by a
mysterious knife wielding woman who
later turns out to be Ruby the boys
catch up with Lisa Braden and Cicero
Indiana Dean had a one-night stand with
her years ago and surprised he's got a
son now his name is Ben and he's a lot
like Dean Lisa is quick to tell Dean
that Ben isn't actually his son but even
so we get our first look at daddy Dean
and it is wonderful who all thinks they
should give Dean a baby in season 15
Ruby claims she can get Dean out of this
whole die in a year deal and starts
giving the boys information about his
asel special children some time over the
summer Bela Talbot shows up and
continues to be unsympathetic for the
rest of the season then in July
Ruby helps Bobby create a special ritual
that allows them to make new bullets for
the Colt but the Colt can't stay in one
person's hands for too long in early
2008 Belet steals the Colt they try to
give her a backstory to make this seem
like it's not the worst decision but it
doesn't really pan out then Sam gets
Groundhog Day by the same trickster from
season 2 who forces him to watch Dean
die over and over again in April the
boys find Bela and she's already given
the colt to Crowley
but the boys don't know that yet she
tells Dean that the demon Lilith holds
her contract as well as Dean's shortly
after she's killed by hellhounds
honestly seems pretty fair Bobby helps
the boys track down Lilith they then try
to take her out with Ruby's knife but
Lilith takes over Ruby's body and Dean
is killed by hellhounds all in all not a
great showing for our heroes with both
Dean
Rubi dad sim gets ready to Hulk out on
Lilith but she smokes back to hell
before he gets a chance we end season
three with Dean in a very Clive Barker s
Cal season for 2008 to 2009 in Hell Dean
is tortured by Alistar hell's numero uno
tortured demon for what seems to be
thirty years in hell years hell years
are kind of like dog years it's very
convenient for when you want to do a
time skip but you don't actually want to
do a time skip because in the main
timeline it's 2008 after 30 years Dean
agrees to start torturing souls to save
himself
Ruby 2.0 and Sam spent time together
trying to get revenge on Lilith wild
beans and hell they get to know each
other biblically and Sam starts drinking
demon blood to make his power stronger
the angel Castiel grips Dean tight and
raises him from perdition on heaven's
orders and a million fanfic writers
cried out in joy for the first time in
2000 years angels are permitted to
reveal themselves to humans and Castiel
shows himself to Dean demons following
Lilith begin breaking seals to start the
apocalypse the Archangel Michael allows
some of his angels to help Sam and Dean
but only to keep other angels from
rebelling he has no intention of
stopping the apocalypse in November they
find Anna Milton the human girl who's
actually an angel who left heaven and
Castiel's former boss somewhere between
the end of December 2008 and January
2009 Castille and Uriel an angel who
also served in Anna's garrison capture
and torture Alastair they can't torture
him well enough though so they recruit
Dean to do their dirty work so hey I
guess all of those L years paid off
Alastair is killed by Sam and juiced up
angel Anna saves Castiel from Uriel
who's been secretly following Lucifer in
March of 2009 Sam and Dean are zapped to
an alternate universe where they aren't
brothers or hunters this is the work of
the angel Zachariah who's trying to
convince them to give in to their
destiny of being vessels for Michael and
Lucifer a few weeks later Sam and Dean
discover the supernatural books and meet
the author Carver Edlund who's actually
a prophet called Chuck Shurley among
other secret identities in April they
think they meet their half-brother Adam
Milligan but it's actually a ghoul who
got revenge on John by killing Adam and
his mother so boo in May Cass is removed
from his vessel Jimmy Novak before he
can give Sam and Dean important
information the Winchesters tried to
protect Jimmy's wife Amelia and his
daughter Claire Cass eventually returns
and takes up residence in Jimmy once
again soon after Dean locks Sam and
Bobby's panic room in an attempt to get
him clean Cass breaks him out at
Heaven's
and Sam goes to Ruby who feeds him lots
of blood they abduct and kill a woman
and Sam drinks all of her blood so that
he can be strong enough to kill Lilith
then Dean and Cass go to visit Chuck and
find out where the 66th seal is an
archangel comes to protected jack and
explodes Castiel both brothers get to
the convent in Maryland and Sam finally
kills Lilith the door to Lucifer's cage
is open and Ruby reveals that this was
her plan all along
before Lucifer escapes Sam and Dean kill
Ruby again season 5 2009 to 2010 season
5 begins just a few days after the end
of season 4 Lucifer is freed and Sam and
Dean are about to be killed in the
explosion when God intervenes he puts
them on a plane to Baltimore which I
mean I guess is better than dying in a
fiery blast and he remakes Castiel while
regrouping at Bobby's Meg 2.0 shows up
it's Bobby's turn to be possessed by a
demon and he stabs himself to stop from
killing Dean Bobby wakes up in the
hospital paralyzed Cass has been cut off
from heaven so he can't fix Bobby but he
carves warning symbols on Sam and Dean's
ribs so angels can't find them Cass then
goes on a quest to find God borrowing
Dean's amulet which will glow in God's
presence meanwhile Lucifer convinces a
man named Nick to become his vessel and
Zachariah tells Dean that Dean is in
fact the Michael sword Michaels true
vessel and that he needs to give Michael
permission to wear him to the prom in
the next episode the boys defeat the
horseman of the Apocalypse war after he
makes a small town turn on each other
after an eventful spring summer 2009
bring Sam some bad dreams of Jessica but
it's actually Lucifer who tells him that
Sam is his true vessel and he has no
choice but to agree to be Lucifer's host
Dean is transported by Zachariah to an
alternate universe of the future where
Sam agrees to be possessed by Lucifer
and the Croatoan virus has created a
very 2009 zombie apocalypse in November
the trickster traps them in another
amazing episode
changing channels he later reveals that
he's in fact the angel Gabriel and he
wants Sam and Dean to say yes and just
start the apocalypse so they can get
this over with
some time later the boys attend a
supernatural convention and are told by
a fangirl Becky that Bela never gave the
Colt to Lilith but to a demon named
Crowley it's also implied that the bank
bailouts are the work of a deal made by
a banker with Crowley so I wonder which
demon is responsible for climate change
yet anyway Crowley then gives them the
Colt hoping that they'll kill Lucifer
forum' Lucifer traps cast when he and
the brothers confront him Meg 2.0 sets
hellhounds on the
and they Maul Joe knowing her daughter
won't make it Ellen builds a bomb and
kills herself while destroying the
hellhounds so Sam and Dean can get away
in early 2010 Anna goes back in time to
1978 to kill John Michael sets Anne on
fire Michael then reveals that the
Winchester bloodline goes back to Cain
and Abel and after all the crazy that's
happened in the series that's really
just a drop in the bucket on Valentine's
Day Sam defeats the horseman famine but
only after the demon makes Sam fall off
the wagon which means of course Dean
locks Sam in the panic room again in
February or March Sioux Falls sheriff
Jody Mills helps them fight off zombies
her life is ruined but we do get a
desperately needed an awesome female
character later Sam and Dean are killed
by hunters and go to heaven in the
episode that is guaranteed to make you
cry every time they reach the angel
Joshua who speaks to God and finds out
that God doesn't care what happens and
won't help them Cass loses his faith in
March of 2010 Dean finally gives in
after killing the [ __ ] of Babylon with
a bunch of Lutheran's and is ready to
say yes as long as heaven promises to
protect Lisa and Ben in exchange as the
big showdown gets closer Michael brings
back their half-brother Adam as a vessel
but Dean changes his mind about saying
yes and kills Zachariah pagan deities
gather at a hotel where they intend to
kill the brothers to stop the apocalypse
Lucifer shows up though and kills all of
them including his brother Gabriel
except he's not really dead death is
like this shows equivalent of having a
cold you can basically walk it off
Gabriel leaves the boys a tape telling
them how to stop the apocalypse with the
rings of the four horsemen afterwards
Crowley helps the boys get the horsemen
pestilences ring soon after Crowley
finds deaths location after making a
deal with Bobby that gives him his legs
back Dean's the next one to hang with
death and they share a deep-dish pizza
that's so good that death decides to
spare the city of Chicago
honestly same deep dish is pretty dope
oh god I want pizza right now with the
four rings Sam and Dean go to confront
Lucifer Sam says yes agreeing to be
Lucifer's host and Lucifer takes control
of him Dean finds out from Chuck that
Lucifer Sam and Michael Adam will fight
in the cemetery outside of Lawrence Cass
yells ass butt and sets Michael on fire
Lucifer then promptly explodes him Sam
is able to get control back from Lucifer
after a very well-done montage and opens
the cage
Sam's in control just long enough to
grab Michael Adam and steel themselves
in the cage God brings Cass back who
then heals Dean and Bobby with Lucifer
and his custom-made extra-comfy hell
cage along with
host Sam and Adam Michael that brings us
to the end of our first supernatural
time line but don't worry we've got part
two coming out real soon and that'll
cover all of the bunkers that happens in
season six through fourteen until then
carry on my wayward son this is Jacob
with cinematic a' and we're going to
keep these timelines going so do
yourself and us a favor and subscribe